[MUSIC]
>> Mike North: Ember-Data
is a persistence library.
It manages records and models and
application state that you
are surfacing to your user.
There are four key objects, the store, the
adapter, the serializer, and the model.
You will have one store and
probably more than one of everything
else in the leverage app.
And recently as of a couple months ago,
there was a pretty
dramatic effort to rewrite
some confusing portions of Ember-Data and
now things look better than ever.
There is standardization around the
internal data structures and you can read
about the convention that Ember-Data
is now aligned with at jsonapi.org.
But it's essentially a very
well thought out schema for
RESTful APIs and
Ember-Data uses that internally as well.
And at a high level what's different
about working with every data compared
to what we've got now in the app?
Is that you're not describing with each
effort to fetch data, you're not
describing the particulars of how to
interact with the API and how to
massage the data when it comes back.
What you're doing instead is at
the outside of your project and
you're defining the process for
interacting with it in general and
having the right adapters and mappings
in place so that the rest of your app.
The parts of your app that deal
with transitioning between states.
with creating new records,
and manipulating them,
and working with them.
They have a much simpler and
more uniform surface to work with.
And that’s where the complexity
of your app exists,
it’s in the logic itself,
how your application works.
And it’s good to take
the code that deals with
bridging the gap between the API's
understanding of data and
Ember's understanding of data,
that can exist sort of on its own and
operate independently.
>> Mike North: So,
the model is a representation of
what you're presenting to the user.
Usually, this is something
that's persisted.
It doesn't have to be.
You can create records on the client and
then throw them away if you wish.
That's not the typical use.
Models are defined by two things largely.
Attributes, which can be of various
types and relationships to other models.
And in terms of terminology
when I say model I'm
describing a factory, of records.
Records are what a model, they're
instances of what a model describes.
So here's a simple example of
what a model could look like.
This would live in the models folder and
this example I'm calling it book.js and
you can see that the book
has a string that's a title,
it has a date for when it was published,
and it has a relationship,
a has many relationship
to the chapter's model.
And this means that, you know,
I would expect like a list of IDs here so
I know you know which chapters should I
fetch to flush this relationship out.
That's what hasMany describes here.
That book has knowledge of chapters and
that you can lazily fetch that array and
flush it out into an actual
object of chapters
simply by just accessing this
property of each record.
So that's a great aspect
of Ember-Data that you just
say that you have this relationship and
then the API request sort of happens
under the hood, when it's necessary.
So the store is the main surface
you deal with when creating or
finding or destroying records.
And the effort here is to have a single
place that manages everything, a single
place to look and that helps keep the task
of synchronizing everything simple.
So in our case if we have
a GitHub.org and, you know,
maybe it's displaying in a couple
of different places on the screen.
You want an update to one of those places,
sort of trickle through to everything
else that's bound to the same data, and
the only way to do this reasonably is to
kind of have a single source of truth.
And it's worth noting that
the major frameworks have all
coalesced around this idea of
a store as a single source of truth.
Flux, although, more a philosophy
than a piece of software.
Flux definitely is built
around the concept of a store.
And Angular data which is a common
persistence framework in Angular.
That is very closely tied to Ember-Data
and also, you know, store centric.
Here's an example of how you
use a store to retrieve data.
The first two methods will
send API requests out.
The second two methods are,
sort of equivalent to the first two,
except instead of making the API requests,
they will
look into the cache Ember-Data's
cache to see if there's
already knowledge of these entities and
it'll return you whatever's in the cache.
So that would be sort of where to look
if you know you already have data
loaded.
>> Speaker 2: Is there
a method that kind of bridges the gap
that it will get it from the cache
first if it's there otherwise fetch it?
>> Mike North: No,
but the logic is not all that difficult.
So you can still do it in one line.
There is a method to check to see if
a record exists without even returning it.
And so you could, just use
the ternary operator and, you know,
do what you need to do there.
So, adapters, the role of the adapter
is to handle the particulars of making
a request, so this includes building
the URL, this includes specifying what
headers and other AGX options are part
of the request that's sent out.
And ultimately it is what actually
initiates the XHR request.
So you've seen this word
application a lot as a default,
as sort of the fallback if
nothing else is found and
application adapter is in line with that.
So, the way that if you request
a particular type of record like if
we ask for a record of type Post,
first Ember will attempt to see if
you have a type specific adapter for
the post model.
And that would be in your adapter's
folder post.js it would be an adapter
with a name that matches the model.
If that cannot be found you fall
back to application adapter
which is sort of the default you
know that handles everything without
a specific adapter in place and
serializers work the same way.
Look for a type specific first and
then you fall back to application.
>> Mike North: Here's
an example of what an adapter looks like.
And this is actually gonna very
closely resemble what I'll
build out as we move away from
jQuery get and to Ember-Data.
You can see here I'm
specifying the host by default
it is the same host that the app
is currently running on so
although the localhost 4200 trying to
get GitHub data and not find it there.
So this is all you have to do
to change the configuration and
start talking to GitHub.
And then here I'm overriding the default
behavior for building a URL so
that I can get the org ID and the link
to find the repos for a given org.
So serializers,
they deal with JSON transformation.
They deal with bridging the gap between
the way that your API models data and
the way you have data
modeled in your Ember app.
And so this is all about normalization and
your goal ultimately is to
get the API data to the JSON API format.
And then Ember-Data will handle the rest.
It will take your javascript objects and
create nice observable
instances of your models and
really handle a lot for
you after that point.
But this is the blank you have to
fill in the bridge the gap between
the two different JSON contracts.
>> Mike North: So
this is an example of a serializer.
You can see that normalizeResponse
here is what I'm using.
This is a very, this is sort of the,
a coarse way of normalizing data.
There's a more specific normalization
methods that you can fill in.
But in this case for what I need to do,
like in this case I'm receiving data
in a format that is not even conducive to
using this other normalization hooks and
so I have to take a little bit of
a heavy handler approach here.